    Title: Racket v6.4
    Date: 2016-02-08T11:04:00
    Tags:

Racket version 6.4 is now available from [http://racket-lang.org/](http:°racket-lang.org/)

* We fixed a security vulnerability in the web server. The existing web server is vulnerable to a navigation attack if it is also enabled to serve files statically; that is, any file readable by the web server is accessible remotely. For more information, see [this post](http://blog.racket-lang.org/2016/02/racket-web-server-security-vulnerability.html).

* DrRacket's scrolling is faster.

* Incremental garbage-collection mode can eliminate long pauses in a program. For example, incremental mode is useful for avoiding pauses in games and animations. Programs must specifically request incremental mode with `(collect-garbage 'incremental)`, but libraries such as `2htdp/universe` include the request as part of the library's implementation.

* The default package catalog is an HTTPS address instead of HTTP, and package operations properly validate server certificates when using HTTPS.

* Documentation may define their own categories for the manual top-level page by using strings, rather than only symbols that name pre-defined categories.

* The Racket cheat sheet is included in the main distribution.

* DrRacket is available in Bulgarian, thanks to Alexander Shopov.

* The contract Typed Racket generates for the `Any` type is more permissive, allowing more typed/untyped programs to work without contract errors.

* Redex supports binding specifications; describe which variables bind in which expressions and your metafunctions and reduction relations automatically become scope-sensitive. Thanks to Paul Stansifer for this improvement.

* All `pict` functions accept `pict-convertibles`. This allows for transparent interoperability between `pict` and libraries like `2htdp/image`.

* The `raco profile` and `raco contract-profile` commands provide easy access to profiling tools, without requiring program modifications.

Feedback Welcome
